+++
title = "Knowledge Compilation meets Uniform Sampling"
date = 2018-08-01T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Shubham Sharma","Rahul Gupta","Subhajit Roy", "Kuldeep Meel"] 

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Proceedings of International Conference on Logic for Programming Artificial Intelligence and Reasoning (LPAR)*"


# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["example-external-project"]


# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.comp.nus.edu.sg/~meel/Papers/lpar18.pdf"
#url_preprint = ""
url_code = "https://github.com/meelgroup/KUS"
#url_dataset = ""
#url_project = ""
#url_slides = ""
#url_video = ""
#url_poster = ""
#url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
#[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"
abstract = "Uniform sampling has drawn diverse applications in programming languages and software engineering, like in constrained-random verification (CRV), constrained-fuzzing and bug synthesis. The effectiveness of these applications depend on the uniformity of test stimuli generated from a given set of constraints. Despite significant progress over the past few years, the performance of the state of the art techniques still falls short of those of heuristic methods employed in the industry which sacrifice either uniformity or scalability when generating stimuli. In this paper, we propose a new approach to the uniform generation that builds on recent progress in knowledge compilation. The primary contribution of this paper is marrying knowledge compilation with uniform sampling: our algorithm, KUS, employs the state-of-the-art knowledge compilers to first compile constraints into d-DNNF form, and then, generates samples by making two passes over the compiled representation. We show that KUS is able to significantly outperform existing state-of-the-art algorithms, SPUR and UniGen2, by up to 3 orders of magnitude in terms of runtime while achieving a geometric speedup of 1.7 and 8.3 over SPUR and UniGen2 respectively. Also, KUS achieves a lower PAR-2 score, around 0.82x that of SPUR and 0.38x that of UniGen2. Furthermore, KUS achieves speedups of up to 3 orders of magnitude for incremental sampling. The distribution generated by KUS is statistically indistinguishable from that generated by an ideal uniform sampler. Moreover, KUS is almost oblivious to the number of samples requested."

+++
