+++
title = "MLIC: A MaxSAT-Based framework for learning interpretable classification rules"
date = 2018-06-02T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Dmitry Malioutov", "Kuldeep S. Meel"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Proceedings of International Conference on Constraint Programming (CP)*"


# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["example-external-project"]


# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
#url_preprint = ""
#url_code = ""
#url_dataset = ""
#url_project = ""
#url_slides = ""
#url_video = ""
#url_poster = ""
#url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
#[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"
abstract = "The wide adoption of machine learning approaches in the industry, government, medicine and science has renewed the interest in interpretable machine learning: many decisions are too important to be delegated to black-box techniques such as deep neural networks or kernel SVMs. Historically, problems of learning interpretable classifiers, including classification rules or decision trees, have been approached by greedy heuristic methods as essentially all the exact optimization formulations are NP-hard. Our primary contribution is a MaxSAT-based framework, called MLIC, which allows principled search for interpretable classification rules expressible in propositional logic. Our approach benefits from the revolutionary advances in the constraint satisfaction community to solve large-scale instances of such problems. In experimental evaluations over a collection of benchmarks arising from practical scenarios, we demonstrate its effectiveness: we show that the formulation can solve large classification problems with tens or hundreds of thousands of examples and thousands of features, and to provide a tunable balance of accuracy vs. interpretability. Furthermore, we show that in many problems interpretability can be obtained at only a minor cost in accuracy. The primary objective of the paper is to show that recent advances in the MaxSAT literature make it realistic to find optimal (or very high quality near-optimal) solutions to large-scale classification problems. The key goal of the paper is to excite researchers in both interpretable classification and in the CP community to take it further and propose richer formulations, and to develop bespoke solvers attuned to the problem of interpretable ML."

+++
