+++
date = 2020-04-06T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.

title = 'Three Papers accepted at <a href="https://www.facebook.com/groups/cavconference/?fref=mentions">Computer Aided Verification (CAV)</a> 2020 conference.<br>1. The first paper proposes a new approach that combines sampling+machine learning+MaxSAT to achieve a significant progress in solving Boolean Functional Synthesis. Authors: Priyanka Golia, Subhajit Roy, and Kuldeep S. Meel<br>2. The second paper builds on our CNF-XOR solving paradigm (BIRD) and as a result, the new versions of ApproxMC and UniGen are faster than ever. Stay tuned for our releases. Authors: Mate Soos, Stephan Gocht, and Kuldeep S. Meel<br>3. The third paper proposes the first algorithm for approximate MUS counting. Authors: Jaroslav Bendik and Kuldeep S. Meel'
time_start = 2020-04-06T00:00:00
#time_end = 2030-06-01T15:00:00
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""
event = ""
event_url = ""
location = ""

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
